---
layout: page
title: About Eta Kappa Nu (HKN)
permalink: /about/
---

Eta Kappa Nu is the Electrical and Computer Engineering Honor Society. HKN, as
we call it, seeks to foster and reward scholarship and also to help members
become both better professionals and better citizens.

### Founding

Eta Kappa Nu was founded in 1904 at the University of Illinois for electrical
engineering students not just to stimulate and reward scholarship but to assist
and encourage its members to grow professionally throughout their entire lives.
Eta Kappa Nu now has chapters in over half of all the engineering schools in
the United States. Eta Kappa Nu invites into membership students in their
junior year of study of electrical engineering who rank in the upper quarter of
their class and senior year students who rank in the upper third of their
class. History has shown that these are the students who later become leaders
in the profession and in the community at large.

### Initiation

The Eta Kappa Nu initiation ceremony was designed to challenge the candidates
to aspire to the ideals of dedicated service, a lifetime of scholarship and
intellectual growth and moral character. The ceremony is usually conducted by
the officers of the student chapter. In the traditional ceremony the officers
use the names of historical men who first discovered the principles of
electrical science which forms the basis of the modern day study of electrical
engineering. The character Wheatstone used in the ceremony is taken from Sir
Charles Wheatstone, an English physicist. He was born in Gloucester, England in
1802 and died in 1875. His professional life was devoted to university teaching
and research and in his last years he served as a professor at Kings College in
London. Although he is most noted for his invention of a special circuit which
measures electrical resistance accurately and which is still used today, he
also played a prominent part in the early development of electrical generators
and telegraphy through underwater cables. Another character's name is Faraday.
The name is taken from Michael Faraday, another English physicist who lived
from 1791 to 1867. Among his many works, his most important were his
experiments on the relationship between electricity and magnetism. The
character called Ampere takes that name from Andre Marie Ampere, a French
physicist who lived from 1775 to 1836. While he was a professor at Ecole
Polytechnique in Paris he published expositions on the theory of the
relationship between electric current and magnetism which became the basis of
our current understanding of electromagnetic theory. The character Ohm uses the
name of George Simon Ohm, a German physicist who was born in 1787 and died in
1857.

He was a professor at Jesuits College at Cologne, then at the Polytechnic
school of Nurnberg and finally at the University in Munich. Although he
published a great deal, his only famous work was his simple theory of the
relationship between electric current and the voltage across a resistance which
is now known as Ohm's Law. This law is one of the basic principles of
electrical science, but at the time he published the paper stating his theory
the idea was so coldly received that Ohm's feelings were hurt and he resigned
his post at Cologne. The name Volta was taken from the Italian physicist
Allessandro Ginseppe Antonio Anastasio Volta who lived from 1745 to 1827. He
was appointed to teaching posts at several universities during his career. The
culmination of that career was his appointment by the emperor of Austria in
1815, as the director of the philosophical faculty at the University of Padua.
Because of his renowned experiments on electricity he was invited to Paris by
Napoleon to demonstrate his work on the generation of electric current. His
most important invention was that of the electric battery which provided the
first source of continuous electric current. Finally, the character's name
Coulomb comes from the French physicist Charles Augustin De Coulomb.  During
his lifetime, from 1736 to 1806, he was a military engineer and later, because
of poor health, an inspector of public instruction, but most of his adult life
he devoted himself to scientific research on electricity. His major
contribution to the understanding of electrical science was his explanation and
measurement of the force between electrical charges.

The work of these men and others has given us the foundation of
electrical science and our modern day electrical engineering. We use
their names to honor their memory and to remind ourselves of what we owe
to those few early scientific pioneers whose works touch almost every
aspect of our modern way of life.
